Ivaylo Markov
Stanislav Beregov

2.5D DUNGEON CRAWLER
	Problem: Today's video games entertaintment industry is ruled by
	multi-million dollar first person shooters which offer better and better
	graphics with each new generation but never change the core gameplay.
	In the last decade or so gamers have been filling the pockets of greedy
	video game publishing companies receiving the same product in a different
	packaging. Better graphics have become the Holy Grail of gaming - who
	needs entertaining gameplay? Our goal is to provide them with a game that
	offers simplistic graphics but focuses on the gameplay experience itself,
	making it fun, providing customisation options but without demanding too
	much attention and complex strategies - another disadvantage of modern
	video games.
	
	Features:
		-map:
			The game will offer an endless procedurally generated map that will
			have three different themes /basements, a futuristic city with
			buildings, and the interior of the buildings/ that change up
			randomly.
		-RPG system:
			Each creature will have a set of basic characteristics which will
			affect their attacks and abilities. There will be four playable
			classes with unique attacks, each playing a different role in
			multiplayer, but equally capable of fighting the enemies by
			themselves in single player mode.
		-item system:
			Players will be able to buy weapons and ammo from vending machines.
			They will also be able to buy cybernetic upgrades /which enhance
			their characteristics/ from special stations.
		-enemies:
			There will be close combat enemies that will try to surround the
			player/s/, while ranged enemies attack them from a safe distance.
		-singleplayer:
		 	Killing monsters will giv experience points which will allow the 
		 	characters to level up and upgrade their skills. The total amount
		 	of XP points will compete for a place in the highscore.
			
		-multiplayer
			Up to eight players will be able to team up in fighting the
			enemies. The average of their XP points will be considered for the
			highscore. There will also be a deathmatch mode where everyone
			plays against everyone.

APRS weather station
	Problem: With the growth of the amateur radio Automatic Packet Reporting
	System, there is a growing demand for a cheap and easy to deploy weather
	stations that can easily send packets through a number of physical media.
	
	Features:
		-various measurements:
			Measurements of the outside temperature with an accuracy of .01
			degrees. Barrometric pressure, humidity, maybe wind speed.
		-AFSK 1200 baud output:
			Ready for a direct connection to a 144 MHz transmitter including adjustable
			output level (for VOX) and PTT control.
		-USB:
			Will be used as a way to configure the device and receive measurements.
		-desktop software:
			Configures the device through USB, receives the data, plots it and also
			submits it to the APRS-IS.
		
	
			
			
			
			
			
			
